Release Notes for v0.54.0 (#3949)
grafana/k6: release notes/v0.54.0.md

stream.on('data', function (data, meta) {
    // will print the timestamp when message has been received
    call(meta.ts);
});
```

Thank you, @cchamplin!

#### Allow missing file descriptors for gRPC reflection

[#3871](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3871) allows missing file descriptors for gRPC reflection.

Thank you, @Lordnibbler!

### Sobek updates brings support of new ECMAScript features into k6 [`#3925`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3925), [`#3913`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3913)

With this release, we've updated [Sobek](https://github.com/grafana/sobek) (the `ECMAScript` implementation in Go) which contains the new ECMAScript features that are now available in k6.

This includes support for numeric literal separators, like:

```javascript
const billion = 1_000_000_000
```

And also support for `BigInt`, the values which are too large to be represented by the number primitive.

```javascript
const huge = BigInt(9007199254740991);
```

Note: that prior k6 version v0.54, Golang's type `math/big.Int` mapped to another type, so it might be a breaking change for some extensions or users.

> ### New `setChecked` method for the browser module [`#3914`](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1403)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New `setChecked` method for the browser module [`browser#1403`](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1403)
```

> Previously, users could check or uncheck checkbox and radio button elements using the [`check`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/page/check/) and [`uncheck`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/page/uncheck/) methods. Now, we've added a `setChecked` method that allows users to set either the checked or unchecked state of a checkbox or radio button with a single method and a boolean argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, users could check or uncheck checkbox and radio button elements using the [`check`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/page/check/) and [`uncheck`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/page/uncheck/) methods. Now, we've added a `setChecked` method that allows users to set a checkbox or radio button to either the checked or unchecked state with a single method and a boolean argument.
```

WDYT?

- [#3922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3922) removes `lib.Min` and `lib.Max` from k6's Go API, which could affect custom extensions that rely on these functions.
- [#3838](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3838) removes `k6/experimental/timers` - they are now available globally and no import is needed.
- [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the default to binaryType to be `"blob"` as per the specification. Previously it was not set by default and required to be set and before that it was `"arraybuffer"`. With this change `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.

## New features

### Branding changes and logo [`#3946`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3946), [`#3953`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3953)

As part of Grafana Labs, k6 got renamed to Grafana k6, instead of k6.io. We also had a purple icon making a bit jarring next to all the other orange-y ones.

As such in this release we also got a new logo and the terminal banner has been redesigned to more closely match the current branding.

> ![image](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/31e3db711850fdd270e56e53feb3a2e4209e542a/assets/logo.svg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/31e3db711850fdd270e56e53feb3a2e4209e542a/assets/logo.svg" alt="Grafana k6 logo" width="210">
</p>
```
Agree with @olegbespalov, the logo occupies almost the whole of my 14" screen.

k6 `v0.54.0` is here 🎉! This release includes:

- A new experimental CSV module
- new ECMAScript features
- Updated logo and branding

## Breaking changes

- [#3913](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3913) changes mapping of the Golang's `math/big.Int` type to `bigint` type in k6.

> - [#3922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3922) removes `lib.Min` and `lib.Max` from k6's Go API, which could affect custom extensions that rely on these functions.

Reviewer 3: Do these two items require any docs updates? 🤔

Author: These luckily no since they are part of the k6's Golang's API (https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6@v0.53.0/lib#Max)

- [#3838](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3838) remove `k6/experimental/timers` - they are now available globally and no import is needed.

> - [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the default to binaryType to be `"blob"` as per the specification. Previously it was not set by default and required to be set and before that it was `"arraybuffer"`. With this change `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.

Author: If I'm not mistaken previously it was always arraybuffer, I mean we had no case where default hasn't been set. But probably @mstoykov is the best person to chime in

> - [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the default to binaryType to be `"blob"` as per the specification. Previously it was not set by default and required to be set and before that it was `"arraybuffer"`. With this change `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.

Reviewer 4: > , I mean we had no case where default hasn't been set.

In v0.53.0 it had no value and always required you to set it or receiving a binary message was an exception when it happened.

> - [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the default to binaryType to be `"blob"` as per the specification. Previously it was not set by default and required to be set and before that it was `"arraybuffer"`. With this change `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the binaryType default value equal to "blob". With this change, `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.
```

> - [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the default to binaryType to be `"blob"` as per the specification. Previously it was not set by default and required to be set and before that it was `"arraybuffer"`. With this change `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.

Reviewer 4: I think it might be better to simplify it more if we are not going to specify the exact way it changed over time. And it likely doesn't matter to most people.

> - [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the default to binaryType to be `"blob"` as per the specification. Previously it was not set by default and required to be set and before that it was `"arraybuffer"`. With this change `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.

Reviewer 3: That sounds good to me. :shipit:

## New features

### Branding changes and logo [`#3946`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3946), [`#3953`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3953)

As part of joining Grafana Labs in 2021, k6 was renamed to Grafana k6. The original k6 logo and branding was purple, which didn't fit very well next to the Grafana Labs orange logo and all its other products.

In this release, we have a new logo in a new color, and the terminal banner has been redesigned to match the current branding more closely.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/31e3db711850fdd270e56e53feb3a2e4209e542a/assets/logo.svg" alt="Grafana k6 logo" width="210">
</p>

> ### New `k6 cloud run --local-execution` flag for local execution of cloud tests [`#3904`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3904), and [#3931](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3931)

Reviewer 3: Very small nit, but maybe we can move this below the CSV heading, so both cloud command news are listed next to each other?

Author: Done

This release introduces the --local-execution flag for the k6 cloud run command, allowing you to run test executions locally while sending the metrics to Grafana Cloud k6.
```bash
k6 cloud run --local-execution
```

By default, using the `--local-execution` flag uploads the test archive to Grafana Cloud k6. If you want to disable this upload, use the `--no-archive-upload` flag.

The `--local-execution` flag currently functions similarly to the `k6 run -o cloud` command, which is now considered deprecated (though it is not planned to be removed). Future updates will enhance `--local-execution` with additional capabilities that the `k6 run -o cloud` command does not offer.

### New experimental CSV module for efficient CSV data handling [`#3743`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3743)

We’ve added a new experimental csv module to k6 for more efficient and convenient CSV parsing and streaming, addressing the limitations of preexisting JavaScript-based solutions like [papaparse](https://www.papaparse.com/).

#### What is it?

The csv module offers two key features:

> * `csv.parse()` **Function**: Parses an entire CSV file at once into a [SharedArray](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-data/sharedarray/), using Go-based processing to using Go-based processing for faster parsing and lower memory usage compared to JavaScript alternatives.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `csv.parse()`: This function parses a CSV file into a [SharedArray](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-data/sharedarray/) at once using Go-based processing for faster parsing and lower memory usage compared to JavaScript alternatives.
```

> * `csv.Parser` **Class**: Provides a streaming parser to read CSV files line-by-line, minimizing memory consumption and offering more control over parsing through a stream-like API. This is ideal for scenarios where memory optimization or fine-grained control of the parsing process is crucial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `csv.Parser`: This class provides a streaming parser to read CSV files line-by-line, minimizing memory consumption and offering more control over parsing through a stream-like API. This is ideal for scenarios where memory optimization or fine-grained control of the parsing process is crucial.
```

> #### Benefits for Users 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Benefits for users 
```

* **Faster Parsing**: `csv.parse` bypasses most of the JavaScript runtime, offering significant speed improvements for large files.

> * **Lower Memory Usage**: both solution support shared memory across virtual users (VUs) with the `fs.open` function.
> * **Flexibility**: choose between full-file parsing with csv.parse() or memory-efficient streaming with csv.Parser.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Lower Memory Usage**: Both solutions support shared memory across virtual users (VUs) with the `fs.open` function.
* **Flexibility**: Choose between full-file parsing with `csv.parse()` or memory-efficient streaming with `csv.Parser`.
```

#### Tradeoffs

* **`csv.Parse`**: Parses the entire file in the initialization phase of the test, which can increase startup time and memory usage for large files. Best suited for scenarios where performance is prioritized over memory consumption.
* **`csv.Parser`**: Reads the file line-by-line, making it more memory-efficient but potentially slower due to reading overhead for each line. Ideal for scenarios where memory usage is a concern or where fine-grained control over parsing is needed.
 

> #### Example Usage

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example usage
```

    //
    // Thus, `csvRecords[scenario.iterationInTest]` will give us the record for the current iteration.
    console.log(csvRecords[scenario.iterationInTest])
}
```

</details>

<details>
<summary> Expand to see an example of streaming a CSV file line-by-line.</summary>

```javascript
import { open } from 'k6/experimental/fs'
import csv from 'k6/experimental/csv'

export const options = {
    iterations: 10,
}

let file;
let parser;
(async function () {
    file = await open('data.csv');
    parser = new csv.Parser(file);
})();

export default async function() {
    // The parser `next` method attempts to read the next row from the CSV file.
    //
    // It returns an iterator-like object with a `done` property that indicates whether
    // there are more rows to read, and a `value` property that contains the row fields
    // as an array.
    const {done, value} = await parser.next();
    if (done) {
        throw new Error("No more rows to read");
    }

    // We expect the `value` property to be an array of strings, where each string is a field
    // from the CSV record.
    console.log(done, value);
}
```

</details>

> ### New `k6 cloud upload` command for uploading test files to the cloud [`#3906`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3906)

Reviewer 3: I think we still need a docs PR for this update.

Reviewer 5: @joanlopez is away, I'll take care of it as soon as possible 👍🏻

Reviewer 5: I've opened https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/1734 accordingly 🙇🏻

> Although we continue to refine and improve the cloud service to handle better the uploading of test files,
> as well as the overall user experience, we've added a new `k6 cloud upload` command that replaces the
> `k6 cloud --upload-only` flag used so far, which is now considered deprecated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We continue to refine and improve the cloud service to improve how we handle uploading test files, so we've added a new `k6 cloud upload` command that replaces the `k6 cloud --upload-only` flag, which is now considered deprecated.
```

### gRPC module updates driven by contributors

#### New `discardResponseMessage` option

> [#3877](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3877) and [#3820](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3820) add a new option for gRPC module `discardResponseMessage` which allows users to discard the messages received from the server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[#3877](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3877) and [#3820](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3820) add a new option for the gRPC module `discardResponseMessage`, which allows users to discard the messages received from the server.
```

```javascript
const resp = client.invoke('main.RouteGuide/GetFeature', req, {discardResponseMessage: true});
```

> This reduces the amount of memory required, and the amount of garbage collection, which reduces the load on the testing machine and can help produce more reliable test results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This reduces the amount of memory required and the amount of garbage collection, which reduces the load on the testing machine and can help produce more reliable test results.
```

Thank you, @lzakharov!

> #### New argument `meta` for gRPC's stream callbacks

Reviewer 3: I think this might need a docs update as well.

Author: I remember that @joanlopez wants to do a PR for that, but probably (I can't see branch neither PR) was busy before PTO so I'll take care of it

Author: Ref. https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/1735

> [#3801](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3801) adds a new argument `meta` to gRPC's stream callback, which handles the timestamp of the original event (e.g. when message has been received).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[#3801](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3801) adds a new argument `meta` to gRPC's stream callback, which handles the timestamp of the original event (for example, when a message has been received).
```

We try to avoid using e.g. and i.e. based on our writing style guide.

```javascript
let stream = new grpc.Stream(client, "main.FeatureExplorer/ListFeatures")
stream.on('data', function (data, meta) {
    // will print the timestamp when message has been received
    call(meta.ts);
});
```

Thank you, @cchamplin!

#### Allow missing file descriptors for gRPC reflection

[#3871](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3871) allows missing file descriptors for gRPC reflection.

Thank you, @Lordnibbler!

### Sobek updates brings support of new ECMAScript features into k6 [`#3899`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3899), [`#3925`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3925), [`#3913`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3913)

With this release, we've updated [Sobek](https://github.com/grafana/sobek) (the `ECMAScript` implementation in Go) which contains the new ECMAScript features that are now available in k6.

> This includes support for numeric literal separators, like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This includes support for numeric literal separators:
```

```javascript
const billion = 1_000_000_000
```

> Support for `BigInt`, the values which are too large to be represented by the number primitive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Support for `BigInt`, the values which are too large to be represented by the number primitive:
```

```javascript
const huge = BigInt(9007199254740991);
```

> Note: that prior k6 version v0.54, Golang's type `math/big.Int` mapped to another type, so it might be a breaking change for some extensions or users.
> 
> Regexp dotall support - letting you match newline characters with `.`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: Before k6 version v0.54, Golang's type `math/big.Int` mapped to another type, so this might be a breaking change for some extensions or users.

RegExp dotAll support, where you can match newline characters with `.`:
```

Previously, users could check or uncheck checkbox and radio button elements using the [`check`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/page/check/) and [`uncheck`](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/page/uncheck/) methods. Now, we've added a `setChecked` method that allows users to set a checkbox or radio button to either the checked or unchecked state with a single method and a boolean argument.

```javascript
await page.setChecked('#checkbox', true);   // check the checkbox
await page.setChecked('#checkbox', false);  // uncheck the checkbox
```

[Page](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/page/setchecked/), [Frame](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/frame/setchecked/), [ElementHandle](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/elementhandle//setchecked/), and [Locator](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser/locator/setchecked/) now support the new `setChecked` method.

### Async `check` function utility [`k6-utils#13`](https://github.com/grafana/k6-jslib-utils/pull/13)

> Writing clean code can be cumbersome using [the k6 `check` function](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6/check/) with async code because the `check` function does not support asynchronous checks. One potential solution is to declare a temporary variable and wait for the value first, then check the result later. However, this approach can clutter the code with single-use declarations and unnecessary variable names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing concise code can be difficult when using [the k6 `check` function](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6/check/) with async code since it doesn't support async APIs. A solution that we have suggested so far is to declare a temporary variable, wait for the value that is to be checked, and then check the result later. However, this approach can clutter the code with single-use declarations and unnecessary variable names, e.g.:
```

@inancgumus WDYT?

Reviewer 6: Perfect!

> Writing concise code can be difficult when using [the k6 `check` function](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6/check/) with async code since it doesn't support async APIs. A solution that we have suggested so far is to declare a temporary variable, wait for the value that is to be checked, and then check the result later. However, this approach can clutter the code with single-use declarations and unnecessary variable names, e.g.:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Writing concise code can be difficult when using [the k6 `check` function](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6/check/) with async code since it doesn't support async APIs. A solution that we have suggested so far is to declare a temporary variable, wait for the value that is to be checked, and then check the result later. However, this approach can clutter the code with single-use declarations and unnecessary variable names, for example:
```

```javascript
const checked = await p.locator('.checked').isChecked();

> check(page, {
>     'checked': p => checked,
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
check(checked, {
    'checked': c => c,
});
```

```

> To address this limitation, we've added a version of the `check` function to [jslib.k6.io](https://jslib.k6.io/) that makes working with `async`/`await` more ergonomic. The `check` function is a drop-in replacement for the built-in check, with added support for async code. Any `Promise`s will be awaited, and the result is reported once the operation has been completed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To address this limitation, we've added a version of the `check` function to [jslib.k6.io](https://jslib.k6.io/) that makes working with `async`/`await` simpler. The `check` function is a drop-in replacement for the built-in check, with added support for async code. Any `Promise`s will be awaited, and the result is reported once the operation has been completed:
```

```javascript
// Import the new check function from jslib.k6.io/k6-utils
import { check } from 'https://jslib.k6.io/k6-utils/1.5.0/index.js';

// ...

// Use the new check function with async code
check(page, {
    'checked': async p => p.locator('.checked').isChecked(),
});
```

Check out [the `check` utility function's documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/jslib/utils/check/) for more information on how to use it.

> ### Support ArrayBufferViews in send for `k6/experimental/websockets` [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844)

Reviewer 3: Does this require a docs update? 🤔

Reviewer 4: already pushed https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/commit/1f74a07536cbff40adf5fa7ff74df983e53a6646  ... as main turned out to not be protected from direct pushes. It is now

Reviewer 3: Ah, I see it. Thanks @mstoykov. 🙇

> ### Support ArrayBufferViews in send for `k6/experimental/websockets` [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844)
> 
> As part of making `k6/experimental/websockets` complaint with the [WebSocket API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket) it now support Uint8Array and other ArrayBufferViews directly as arguments to `send`, instead of having to specifically provide their `buffer`.
> 
> This should make it more compliant with libraries that use WebSocket API.
> 
> Thanks to @pixeldrew for [reporting](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets/issues/75) this :bow:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Support ArrayBufferViews in `send` for `k6/experimental/websockets` [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844)

As part of making `k6/experimental/websockets` compliant with the [WebSocket API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket), it now supports Uint8Array and other ArrayBufferViews directly as arguments to `send`, instead of having to specifically provide their `buffer`.

This should make the module more compliant with libraries that use the WebSocket API.

Thanks to @pixeldrew for [reporting](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets/issues/75) this. :bow:
```

### Rework of how usage is being collected internally and additional counters [`#3917`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3917) and [`#3951`](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3951)

> As part of working on k6 over the years we have many times wondered if given features is used or if this strange corner case behavior is being used.
> 
> We usually made guesses or tried to extrapolate from experience on issues we see or maybe even cloud customers. This unfortunately isn't always easy or possible at all and definitely is very skewed. As such we usually also added warning messages to thing we intend on breaking to let people know and ask them to report if they see problems. This usually see very little activity especially before we make the changes.
> 
> This also only works for things we want to remove, but doesn't help us know if people use new functionality at all or if there are patterns that we do not expect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As part of working on k6 over the years, we have often wondered if users use certain features or if they see a strange corner case behavior.

We have usually made guesses or tried to extrapolate from experience on issues we see. Unfortunately, this isn't always easy or possible, and it's definitely very skewed. As such, we usually also add warning messages to things we intend to break to inform people and ask them to report problems. But we usually see very little activity, especially before we make changes.

This also only works for things we want to remove, and it doesn't help us know if people use new functionality at all or if there are patterns we don't expect.
```

> While k6 has been collecting usage for a while it is usually very surface level stuff,  such as how many VUs were run, k6 version, what *internal* modules were loaded and such.
> 
> And the system for this was very rigid requiring usually a lot of work to add simple stuff, like if someone used the `require` function.
> 
> This has been reworked to make this a lot easier to do and a few new usage reports have been added:
> - when cloud is used it will also tell us which test run it is. We already have most if not actually more of the information reported through metrics and it being ran in the cloud. But this will also help us filter cloud from not cloud runs easier and also potentially tell cloud users that they are using experimental modules that are to be removed soon.
> - number of files parsed as well as number of ts files parsed. This will be useful both in us figuring out if people use small projects or bigger ones as well as if ts file support is being used.
> - usage of `require`. Now that we have ESM native support, using `require` and CommonJS adds complexity. It is interesting to us whether removing this in the future - likely years, given it support in other runtimes, is even feasable.
> - usage of `global`. This for help us decide if we can [drop compatility-mode](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3864) differences or even the whole concept of them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While k6 has been collecting usage for a while, they're surface-level things, such as how many VUs were run, the k6 version, or which *internal* modules were loaded. The system for this was also very rigid, requiring a lot of work to add simple things, such as if someone used the `require` function.

This process has been reworked to make things easier, and a few new usage reports have been added:

- When Grafana Cloud is used, it will also tell us which test run it is. We already have most of the information reported through metrics and from the test being executed in the cloud. But this will help us filter cloud test runs from local runs and potentially warn cloud users if they're using experimental modules that will be removed.
- The number of files parsed, as well as the number of .ts files parsed. This will help us understand if people use small or big projects and if TypeScript support is being used.
- Usage of `require`. Now that we have ESM native support, using `require` and CommonJS adds complexity. It's interesting to us whether removing this in the future - likely years, given its support in other runtimes, is feasible.
- Usage of `global`. This will help us decide if we can [drop compatibility-mode](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3864) differences or even the whole concept.
```

- [#3926](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3926) documents maintenance of tc39 tests.
- [#3881](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3881) adds top-level roadmap link.
- [#3945](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3945) updates the endpoint where [usage reports](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/set-up/usage-collection/) are sent to.
- [#3903](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3903), [#3912](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3912), [#3928](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3928) update dependencies.
- [browser#1419](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1419), [browser#1423](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1423) adds a new remote file upload protocol.
- [#3900](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3900) and [#3902](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3902) Update golangci-lint to 1.60.1 and add fatcontext and cononicalheader as linters.
- [#3908](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3908) drop NetTrail internal type to simplify internal implementation on emitting iteration and data transmission metric.
- [#3935](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3935) refactor some js tests to remove repeated setup code.

## Roadmap

> In version 0.52.0, the browser module [transitioned](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3793) from the experimental phase to stable. The new module is more stable and has a [full Async API](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1374). To ensure your scripts continue working, you must migrate to the new `k6/browser` module and discontinue using the previous `k6/experimental/browser` module. Please see [the migration guide](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6-browser/migrating-to-k6-v0-52/) for more details.
> 
> _Discussion of future plans_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In version 0.52.0, the browser module [transitioned](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3793) from experimental to stable. The new module is more stable and has a [full Async API](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1374). To ensure your scripts continue working, you must migrate to the new `k6/browser` module and discontinue using the previous `k6/experimental/browser` module. Please see [the migration guide](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6-browser/migrating-to-k6-v0-52/) for more details.
```

k6 `v0.54.0` is here 🎉! This release includes:

- A new experimental CSV module

> - New `k6 cloud` commands for local execution and upload script files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- New `k6 cloud` commands for local execution and uploading script files
```

Sorry I missed this @olegbespalov. 😓

```javascript
const checked = await p.locator('.checked').isChecked();

check(checked, {
    'checked': c => c,
});
```

To address this limitation, we've added a version of the `check` function to [jslib.k6.io](https://jslib.k6.io/) that makes working with `async`/`await` simpler. The `check` function is a drop-in replacement for the built-in check, with added support for async code. Any `Promise`s will be awaited, and the result is reported once the operation has been completed:

```javascript
// Import the new check function from jslib.k6.io/k6-utils
import { check } from 'https://jslib.k6.io/k6-utils/1.5.0/index.js';

// ...

// Use the new check function with async code
check(page, {
    'checked': async p => p.locator('.checked').isChecked(),
});
```

Check out [the `check` utility function's documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/jslib/utils/check/) for more information on how to use it.

> 
> ### Support ArrayBufferViews in `send` for `k6/experimental/websockets` [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### `k6/experimnetal/websockets` updates towards WebSockets API compatibility

#### Support ArrayBufferViews in `send` for `k6/experimental/websockets` [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844)
```

As part of making `k6/experimental/websockets` compliant with the [WebSocket API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket), it now supports Uint8Array and other ArrayBufferViews directly as arguments to `send`, instead of having to specifically provide their `buffer`.

This should make the module more compliant with libraries that use the WebSocket API.

Thanks to @pixeldrew for [reporting](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets/issues/75) this. :bow:

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

#### `readyState` actually being a number [#3972](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3972)

Due to goja/Sobek internal workings `readyState` wasn't exactly a number in js code. This had some very strange behaviour which limitted interoperability with libraries.

This has now been fixed and `readyState` is a normal looking number from js code of view.

Thanks to @dougw-bc for [reporting](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets/issues/79) this. :bow:
```

Reviewer 4: seems good :+1:

k6 `v0.54.0` is here 🎉! This release includes:

- A new experimental CSV module
- New `k6 cloud` commands for local execution and uploading script files
- New ECMAScript features
- Updated logo and branding

## Breaking changes

- [#3913](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3913) changes the mapping of Golang's `math/big.Int` type to `bigint` type in k6.
- [#3922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3922) removes `lib.Min` and `lib.Max` from k6's Go API, which could affect custom extensions that rely on these functions.
- [#3838](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3838) removes `k6/experimental/timers` - they are now available globally and no import is needed.

> - [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3844) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets` made the binaryType default value equal to "blob". With this change, `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- [#3944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3944) updates to `k6/experimental/websockets`, which makes the `binaryType` default value equal to `"blob"`. With this change, `k6/experimental/websockets` is now compliant with the specification.
```
